https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-13718 (#6975)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/observability_alerts.adoc

Receive and define alerts for the observability service to be notified of hub cluster and managed cluster changes.

[#alert-prereqs]
== Prerequisites

> //are there any prerequsites that we should mention? What is the required access level? Cluster administrator?

Author: @philipgough

> //are there any prerequsites that we should mention? What is the required access level? Cluster administrator?

Author: ```suggestion
* You must enable observability on your hub cluster.
* You must have the create permission for secret resources in the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace.
* You must have edit permission on the `MultiClusterObservability` resource.
```

+
[source,bash]
----
openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in cert.csr -signkey cert.key -out cert.crt
----

//I added the steps to create the .crt and .key files because I saw that in Polarian. Should cert.csr be changed to cert.crt in the openssl req command?
//

. Mount the `tls` secret to your `MultiClusterObservability` resource by adding it to the `advanced` section. Your resource might resemble the following content:

+
[source,yaml]
----
...
advanced: 
 alertmanager: 
   secrets: ['tls']
----

. To add a reference of your `tls` secret within your Alertmanager configuration, add the path of your secret to the configuration. Your resource might resemble the following configuration:

+
[source,yaml]
----
tls_config: 
 cert_file: '/etc/alertmanager/secrets/tls/tls.crt'
 key_file: '/etc/alertmanager/secrets/tls/tls.key'
----

. To verify that the secrets are within your `alertmanager` pods, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability get secret alertmanager-config --template='{{ index .data "alertmanager.yaml" }}' |base64 -d > alertmanager.yaml
----
+
Your YAML might resemble the following contents:

> +
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> "global":
>   "resolve_timeout": "5m"
>   "http_config":
>     "tls_config":
>       "cert_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.crt"
>       "key_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.key"
> ----
> 
> //also got verification step from Polarian

Author: @quchangl-github thanks! It seems like there are commands that you provided. I'll commit my suggestion. Let me know what you think
```suggestion
+
[source,yaml]
----
"global":
  "http_config":
    "tls_config":
      "cert_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.crt"
      "key_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.key"
----

. Save the `alertmanager.yaml` configuration in the `alertmanager-config` secret by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability create secret generic alertmanager-config --from-file=alertmanager.yaml --dry-run -o=yaml 
----

. Replace the previous secret with your new secret by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability replace secret --filename=-
----
```

[#mount-secrets-alertmanager]
=== Mounting secrets within the Alertmanager pods

You can create `Secret` resources with arbitrary content, which can be mounted within your `alertmanager` pods for access to authorization credentials.

To reference secrets within your Alertmanager configuration, add the `Secret` resource content within the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace and mount the content within the `alertmanager` pods. Complete the following steps to create and mount a `tls` secret:

. To create create a `tls` secret with TLS certificates, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc create secret tls tls --cert=</path/to/cert.crt> --key=</path/to/cert.key> -n open-cluster-management-observability
----

. To create `cert.crt` and `cert.key` files, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout cert.key -out cert.csr
----

. To set an expiration of 365 days for your `cert.crt` and `cert.key` files, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in cert.csr -signkey cert.key -out cert.crt
----

> //I added the steps to create the .crt and .key files because I saw that in Polarian. Should cert.csr be changed to cert.crt in the openssl req command?

Reviewer: @dockerymick I added setps regrading how to gerenrate cert.crt and cert.key in Polarion for testing, want to provide more detailed steps for the tester. I think it's fine not to add these two commands of creating key and cert files.

Author: @philipgough are the steps to create the `cert.crt` and `cert.key` files necessary?

//

> . Mount the `tls` secret to your `MultiClusterObservability` resource by adding it to the `advancedConfig` section. Your resource might resemble the following content:

Author: ```suggestion
. Mount the `tls` secret to your `MultiClusterObservability` resource by adding it to the `advanced` section. Your resource might resemble the following content:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
...

> advancedConfig: 

Author: ```suggestion
advanced: 
```

 alertmanager: 
   secrets: ['tls']
----

> //Should "['tls']" in the previous sample be moved to a new line? Asking because the sample appears that way in Polarian

Reviewer: the format is fine, but `advancedConfig` should be changed to `advanced`

> //Should "['tls']" in the previous sample be moved to a new line? Asking because the sample appears that way in Polarian

Author: ```suggestion
```

. To add a reference of your `tls` secret within your Alertmanager configuration, add the path of your secret to the configuration. Your resource might resemble the following configuration:

+
[source,yaml]
----
tls_config: 
 cert_file: '/etc/alertmanager/secrets/tls/tls.crt'
 key_file: '/etc/alertmanager/secrets/tls/tls.key'
----

. To verify that the secrets are within your `alertmanager` pods, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability get secret alertmanager-config --template='{{ index .data "alertmanager.yaml" }}' |base64 -d > alertmanager.yaml
----
+
Your YAML might resemble the following contents:

+
[source,yaml]
----
"global":
  "resolve_timeout": "5m"
  "http_config":
    "tls_config":
      "cert_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.crt"
      "key_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.key"
----

> //also got verification step from Polarian

Reviewer: @dockerymick I had updated the Polarion case, when the secret is added into the MCOCR, then user can add below info into the alertmanager.yaml which from secret alertmanager-config
```
"global":
  "http_config":
    "tls_config":
      "cert_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.crt"
      "key_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.key"
```
And next, save the alertmanager.yaml configuration into the secret alertmanager-config by command:
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability create secret generic alertmanager-config --from-file=alertmanager.yaml --dry-run -o=yaml |  oc -n open-cluster-management-observability replace secret --filename=-

Your changes are applied immediately after it is modified. For an example of Alertmanager, see link:https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager/blob/master/doc/examples/simple.yml[prometheus/alertmanager].

[#mount-secrets-alertmanager]
=== Mounting secrets within the Alertmanager pods

You can create `Secret` resources with arbitrary content, which can be mounted within your `alertmanager` pods for access to authorization credentials.

> To reference secrets within your Alertmanager configuration, add the `Secret` resource content within the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace and mount the content within the `alertmanager` pods. Complete the following steps to create and mount a `tls` secret:

Author: ```suggestion
To reference secrets within your Alertmanager configuration, add the `Secret` resource content within the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace and mount the content within the `alertmanager` pods. For example, to create and mount a `tls` secret, complete the following steps:
```

> . To create create a `tls` secret with TLS certificates, run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. To create a `tls` secret with TLS certificates, run the following command:
```

> 
> . To create create a `tls` secret with TLS certificates, run the following command:

Author: ```suggestion
. To create `cert.crt` and `cert.key` files, run the following command:
	
+
[source,bash]
----
openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout cert.key -out cert.csr
----
	
. To set an expiration of 365 days for your `cert.crt` and `cert.key` files, run the following command:
	
+
[source,bash]
----
openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in cert.csr -signkey cert.key -out cert.crt
----

. To create create a `tls` secret with TLS certificates, run the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
oc create secret tls tls --cert=</path/to/cert.crt> --key=</path/to/cert.key> -n open-cluster-management-observability
----

> . To create `cert.crt` and `cert.key` files, run the following command:
> 
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> openssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout cert.key -out cert.csr
> ----
> 
> . To set an expiration of 365 days for your `cert.crt` and `cert.key` files, run the following command:
> 
> +
> [source,bash]
> ----
> openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in cert.csr -signkey cert.key -out cert.crt
> ----
> 
> //I added the steps to create the .crt and .key files because I saw that in Polarian. Should cert.csr be changed to cert.crt in the openssl req command?

Author: Necessary to use before the user creates the secret
```suggestion
```

> //

Author: ```suggestion
```

Your changes are applied immediately after it is modified. For an example of Alertmanager, see link:https://github.com/prometheus/alertmanager/blob/master/doc/examples/simple.yml[prometheus/alertmanager].

[#mount-secrets-alertmanager]
=== Mounting secrets within the Alertmanager pods

You can create `Secret` resources with arbitrary content, which can be mounted within your `alertmanager` pods for access to authorization credentials.

To reference secrets within your Alertmanager configuration, add the `Secret` resource content within the `open-cluster-management-observability` namespace and mount the content within the `alertmanager` pods. For example, to create and mount a `tls` secret, complete the following steps:

. To create a `tls` secret with TLS certificates, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc create secret tls tls --cert=</path/to/cert.crt> --key=</path/to/cert.key> -n open-cluster-management-observability
----

> . Mount the `tls` secret to your `MultiClusterObservability` resource by adding it to the `advanced` section. Your resource might resemble the following content:

Reviewer 2: Optional:

All your other steps are written in the structure "To < action >, run/add < command or resource > 

Although this command is correct and reads well, consider making its structure consistent with the other steps:

```suggestion
. To mount the `tls` secret to your `MultiClusterObservability` resource, add it to the `advanced` section. Your resource might resemble the following content:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
...
advanced: 
 alertmanager: 
   secrets: ['tls']
----

. To add a reference of your `tls` secret within your Alertmanager configuration, add the path of your secret to the configuration. Your resource might resemble the following configuration:

+
[source,yaml]
----
tls_config: 
 cert_file: '/etc/alertmanager/secrets/tls/tls.crt'
 key_file: '/etc/alertmanager/secrets/tls/tls.key'
----

. To verify that the secrets are within your `alertmanager` pods, run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability get secret alertmanager-config --template='{{ index .data "alertmanager.yaml" }}' |base64 -d > alertmanager.yaml
----
+
Your YAML might resemble the following contents:

+
[source,yaml]
----
"global":
  "http_config":
    "tls_config":
      "cert_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.crt"
      "key_file": "/etc/alertmanager/secrets/storyverify/tls.key"
----

> . Save the `alertmanager.yaml` configuration in the `alertmanager-config` secret by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: Same optional comment as above. Simple sentence restructure for consistency. Once again, original content is good and correct :) 

```suggestion
. To save the `alertmanager.yaml` configuration in the `alertmanager-config` secret, run the following command:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
oc -n open-cluster-management-observability create secret generic alertmanager-config --from-file=alertmanager.yaml --dry-run -o=yaml 
----

> . Replace the previous secret with your new secret by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To replace the previous secret with your new secret, run the following command:
```
